Earthquake

Earthquakes usually strike without warning. The following actions, as time permits, should be accomplished:
Inside of Buildings

1.  Drop to the ground; take cover by getting under a sturdy table or other piece of furniture; and hold on until the shaking stops. If there isn’t a table or desk near you, seek cover against an interior wall or inside corner, protecting your head and neck with your arms. Do not use a doorway except if you know it is a strongly supported, load-bearing doorway and it is close to you.
2.  Avoid areas near large windows, tall furniture and heavy hanging objects.
3.  After the earthquake, remain calm. Do not leave the building until the shaking is over. Then exit in a calm and orderly manner. Do not use the elevators. Do not blindly run outside, parts of buildings may still be falling.
4.  Do not return to buildings for any reason until they have been declared safe.
5.  The Building Administrator and Assistant Building Administrator should observe from a safe distance from all building entrances to see that no one re-enters the buildings.
6.  Do not light any fires after the earthquake. If your area has gas utilities, do not flip switches, including light switches, which may spark and ignite the gas.
7.  Avoid touching electrical wires which may have fallen.
8.  Check for injured persons. Render first aid if trained. Do not move the victim unless he or she is in immediate danger. Seek emergency help as soon as possible.
9.  The Chancellor or designee will determine the advisability of closing the campus. If necessary he/she will try to procure the advice of competent authorities about the safety of the building.
10. Turn on the radio for latest bulletins.
11. Subsequent shocks may follow the initial tremor. Do not return to buildings until officials declare them safe.

Outside of Buildings

1.  The safest place is in the open. Stay there until the earthquake is over.
2.  Move away from buildings, trees, and exposed wires.
    Do not run.
3.  Follow the procedures under “Inside Building”.
4.  In Car or Bus: On a mountain road, the side of the road may not be the safest place; hence the driver should quickly consider the terrain before deciding where to stop.
5.  If possible, pull to side of road away from any buildings, and crouch or lie down in car.
6.  Set brakes.
7.  Turn off ignition.
8.  Wait until earthquake is over. 