Tsunami or Flood
Tsunami

A tsunami is a series of destructive ocean waves affecting all shorelines. Tsunamis may occur with advance warning or without advance warning (i.e. locally generated).

In case of a tsunami, Civil Defense will sound the Attention Alert Signal which is a steady blast for one minute on sirens, followed by one minute silence–repeated as necessary. Upon hearing the sirens, turn on the radio and listen for instructions.

In the event that a Tsunami Watch or Warning is issued by Civil Defense, Campus Security shall notify the Chancellors, Vice Chancellors, Deans, Directors, and those in charge of off-campus facilities/activities. These individuals shall immediately notify their respective units of the Civil Defense warning and to take proper action. Note: Personnel may not be able to hear the Civil Defense sirens from certain locations of the campuses. Therefore, it is essential for Auxiliary Services to notify these individuals without delay.

UH Hilo units currently located in Tsunami Evacuation Zone:

    Pacific Aquaculture & Coastal Resources Center
    Hawai Innovation Center at Hilo (old Bank of Hawai Building)
    Kilauea Financial Plaza
    Marine Science Research Vessel, Hilo Harbor

Upon hearing the Civil Defense sirens and/or obtaining information that a tsunami warning has been issued, all beach/ocean related activities will immediately cease and individuals will evacuate to higher grounds. No one shall return to lower grounds until after the “all clear” declaration is given by Civil Defense.

Potentially serious traffic problems can develop during a tsunami alert. In reducing traffic problems during this situation, all employees and students not in a tsunami inundation zone shall remain where they are. Only those employees and students working in an tsunami inundation zone (refer to the Civil Defense Evacuation Maps in the Hawaiian Telcom Phonebook), those having family members in a tsunami inundation zone, and those with unique and special reasons (i.e., having a boat which needs to be removed to the open ocean) may be released (Governor’s Administrative Directive No. 96–07, Policy Governing Tsunami Alert Procedures).
Flash Floods

Flash floods are the rapid flooding of streams, valleys, low lying and flood prone areas caused by heavy rains.

Flood Warnings are issued by the National Weather Service. Civil Defense may sound the Attention Alert Signal. Listen to the radio for information and instructions.

Keep away from flood prone areas, do not enter flooded roadways, paths, streams, flood control systems, etc.